.TH LOUT 1
.SH NAME
lout - prepare Lout document for printing
.SH SYNOPSIS
lout [ -s ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
Invoke the Basser Lout interpreter on the concatenation of the named
files, producing a PostScript file on standard output suitable for
printing on PostScript printers using lpr(1).  If no files are named,
stdin is used instead.  The special file name - may be used to denote
standard input.  There may be white space between flags like -i and
their associated <filename> or <dirname> values.
.P
An optional .lt suffix may be used for Lout source and include
files.  When invoking files ending in this suffix the suffix may be
omitted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
-s
Suppress all reading and writing of the cross reference database;
other databases are not affected.  Useful when many simple documents
that don't do any cross referencing are stored in one directory.
.TP
-EPS
Produce output in the form of an EPS (Encapsulated PostScript) file,
suitable for inclusion in another document.
.TP
-p
Produce plain text output instead of PostScript.
.TP
-P
Like -p but with a form-feed character between pages.
.TP
-S
Safe execution:  disable all calls to system(3), instead echoing
the commands that would have been executed.
.TP
-e<filename>
Direct error messages to <filename> instead of to stderr.
.TP
-o<filename>
Direct PostScript output to <filename> instead of to stdout.
.TP
-i<filename>  
Search the directories of the include file path (see below) for
<filename> or <filename>.lt and include it.  There may be
multiple -i options.
.TP
-I<dirname>
Add <dirname> to the list of directories searched for @Include files
and -i option files.  There may be multiple -I options.  @Include first
searches the current directory, then searches the -I directories in the
order given, and finally searches the default include file directory
(see below).  @SysInclude and the -i option omit the search of the
current directory.
.TP
-C<dirname>
Add <dirname> to the list of directories searched for Lout character
mapping (.LCM) files.  There may be multiple -C options; the directories
are searched in the order given, and finally the default character
mappings directory is searched (see below).
.TP
-F<dirname>
Add <dirname> to the list of directories searched for font metrics
(formerly .AFM) files.  There may be multiple -F options; the
directories are searched in the order given, and finally the default
font metrics directory is searched (see below).
.TP
-H<dirname>
Add <dirname> to the list of directories searched for hyphenation
patterns files, both unpacked (.lh) and packed (.lp).  There may be
multiple -H options; the directories are searched in the order given,
and finally the default hyphenation directory is searched (see below).
.TP
-D<dirname>
Add <dirname> to the list of directories searched for Lout database
files.  There may be multiple -D options.  @Database searches the
current directory, then the -D directories in the order given, and
finally searches the default databases directory (see below).
@SysDatabase omits the search of the current directory.
.TP
--<opt>{<val>}
Set setup file <opt> to <val>, overriding any value assigned to
<opt> in the setup file.  For example, --@PageType{Letter} will
set the @PageType setup file option to Letter.  The value may be
a sequence of words but not an arbitrary Lout object.  If there
are spaces you must ensure that it is passed to Lout as a single
option; the usual way to do this is to enclose it in quotes.
.TP
-x
Initializing run, not for ordinary use: read and check all font files
mentioned in font definitions, read and check all hyphenation files
mentioned in language definitions and build compressed versions, read
and check all database files mentioned in database clauses and build
index files.
.TP
-u
Print usage information on stderr.
.TP
-V
Print version information on stderr.
.SH FILES
.nf
Binary file:                     <BINDIR>/lout
Default include file directory:  <LIBDIR>/include
Default databases directory:     <LIBDIR>/data
Default font metrics directory:  <LIBDIR>/font
Default hyphenation directory:   <LIBDIR>/hyph
Default character mappings dir.: <LIBDIR>/maps
Lout documentation directory:    <DOCDIR>
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
c2lout(1), lpr(1), ghostview(1)
.SH MAILING LIST
.P
A public mailing list for discussion of Lout exists.  To subscribe, mail
lout-request@niif.spb.su with the word subscribe in the Subject line,
then wait one working day.  To post an item, mail it to lout@niif.spb.su.
.SH REFERENCES
.P
Jeffrey H. Kingston, "A User's Guide to the Lout Document Formatting
System," and "An Expert's Guide to the Lout Document Formatting System."
.SH AUTHOR
.P
Jeffrey H. Kingston
